README.md, before:

# Python Injection Framework (PIF)

[![python](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/python.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)
[![version](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/version.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)
[![coverage](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/coverage.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)
[![pytest](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/pytest.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)
[![ruff](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/ruff.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)

A simple Python dependency injection framework.

## Usage

**This project is under active development. The following example does not represent the final state for the project.**

### Dependency Injection

The injection framework is configured to inject any default values for method arguments that are instances
of `providers.Provider`.

This implementation works by wrapping decorators around methods any patching any unfilled `providers.Provider` default
arguments at runtime.

All dependency injection is lazily evaluated so providers are only evaluated when a method is called. This approach is
optimal as it reduces necessary computation for expensive services and reduces

#### Decorator Injection

With this approach you can automatically inject functions at load time using the `@wiring.injected` decorator.

```python
from pif import wiring, providers


@wiring.injected  # <- automatically injects providers.Provider default arguments!
def my_function(a: str = providers.ExistingSingleton("hello world")):
    return a


if __name__ == "__main__":
    assert "hello world" == my_function()
```

### Module Injection

With this approach you can wire all methods in the specified modules.

```python
from pif import wiring, providers


def my_function(a: str = providers.ExistingSingleton("hello world")):
    return a


if __name__ == "__main__":
    wiring.wire([__name__])  # <- dynamically inject methods with providers.Provider default arguments!

    assert "hello world" == my_function()
```

### Overriding

This package provides a simple mechanism to override providers. This can be very useful when it comes to mocking
services for testing or dynamically patching application behavior based on application configuration.

#### Standard Overriding

If you want to patch a value all you need to do is call `.override()` on the provider in question. If you are wanting to
override an existing singleton you may call the convenience method `.override_existing()`.

```python
from pif import wiring, providers

StringProvider = providers.ExistingSingleton("hello world")


@wiring.injected
def my_function(a: str = StringProvider):
    return a


if __name__ == "__main__":
    assert "hello world" == my_function()

    override = StringProvider.override_existing("overridden_1")

    assert "overridden_1"
```

### Context Managers

If you want more control around the override lifecycles then you may use the `Override` context manager.

```python
from pif import wiring, providers

StringProvider = providers.ExistingSingleton("hello world")


@wiring.injected
def my_function(a: str = StringProvider):
    return a


if __name__ == "__main__":
    assert "hello world" == my_function()

    OverrideProvider = providers.ExistingSingleton("overridden_1")

    with StringProvider.override_existing(OverrideProvider):
        assert "overridden_1" == my_function()

        with OverrideProvider.override_existing("overridden_2"):
            assert "overridden_2" == my_function()  # You can even stack overrides!!

        assert "overridden_1" == my_function()

    assert "hello world" == my_function()
```

## Authors

| [![Zac Scott](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38968222?s=128&v=4)](https://github.com/scottzach1) |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Zac Scott (scottzach1)](https://github.com/scottzach1)                                                   |

Commit message:

Add simple_service to examples/

README.md, after:

# Python Injection Framework (PIF)

[![python](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/python.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)
[![version](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/version.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)
[![coverage](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/coverage.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)
[![pytest](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/pytest.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)
[![ruff](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/blob/gh-pages/ruff.svg?raw=true)](https://github.com/scottzach1/Python-Injector-Framework/)

A simple Python dependency injection framework.

## Usage

**This project is under active development. The following example does not represent the final state for the project.**

### Dependency Injection

The injection framework is configured to inject any default values for method arguments that are instances
of `providers.Provider`.

This implementation works by wrapping decorators around methods any patching any unfilled `providers.Provider` default
arguments at runtime.

All dependency injection is lazily evaluated so providers are only evaluated when a method is called. This approach is
optimal as it reduces necessary computation for expensive services and reduces

#### Decorator Injection

With this approach you can automatically inject functions at load time using the `@wiring.injected` decorator.

```python
from pif import wiring, providers


@wiring.injected  # <- automatically injects providers.Provider default arguments!
def my_function(a: str = providers.ExistingSingleton("hello world")):
    return a


if __name__ == "__main__":
    assert "hello world" == my_function()
```

### Module Injection

With this approach you can wire all methods in the specified modules.

```python
from pif import wiring, providers


def my_function(a: str = providers.ExistingSingleton("hello world")):
    return a


if __name__ == "__main__":
    wiring.wire([__name__])  # <- dynamically inject methods with providers.Provider default arguments!

    assert "hello world" == my_function()
```

### Overriding

This package provides a simple mechanism to override providers. This can be very useful when it comes to mocking
services for testing or dynamically patching application behavior based on application configuration.

#### Standard Overriding

If you want to patch a value all you need to do is call `.override()` on the provider in question. If you are wanting to
override an existing singleton you may call the convenience method `.override_existing()`.

```python
from pif import wiring, providers

StringProvider = providers.ExistingSingleton("hello world")


@wiring.injected
def my_function(a: str = StringProvider):
    return a


if __name__ == "__main__":
    assert "hello world" == my_function()

    override = StringProvider.override_existing("overridden_1")

    assert "overridden_1"
```

### Context Managers

If you want more control around the override lifecycles then you may use the `Override` context manager.

```python
from pif import wiring, providers

StringProvider = providers.ExistingSingleton("hello world")


@wiring.injected
def my_function(a: str = StringProvider):
    return a


if __name__ == "__main__":
    assert "hello world" == my_function()

    OverrideProvider = providers.ExistingSingleton("overridden_1")

    with StringProvider.override_existing(OverrideProvider):
        assert "overridden_1" == my_function()

        with OverrideProvider.override_existing("overridden_2"):
            assert "overridden_2" == my_function()  # You can even stack overrides!!

        assert "overridden_1" == my_function()

    assert "hello world" == my_function()
```

## Examples

If you would like to see more examples, feel free to check out [examples/](examples).

## Authors

| [![Zac Scott](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38968222?s=128&v=4)](https://github.com/scottzach1) |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Zac Scott (scottzach1)](https://github.com/scottzach1)                                                   |
